(Re)define `property` (#126)
Materials-Consortia/OPTiMaDe: optimade.md

* **Database**: An implementation that serves materials information.
* **Entry**: A type of resource, over which a query can be formulated using the API
  (e.g., structure or calculation).

> * **Field**: A key in a JSON object.

Reviewer: Can we keep the Term Definitions file-type agnostic?
We can remove "in a JSON object" around, and refer to key, value, and hash tables.

Author: done

> * **Property**: A field and the field's value collectively in a JSON object.

Reviewer: Remove "in a JSON object"

Reviewer 2: Could be simplified to "key-value pair"

Author: done

* **Property Value Types**:
  * **string**, **integer**, **float**, **boolean**, **null value**: Base data
    types as defined in more detail in section [5.1. Lexical Tokens](#h.5.1).

>   * **list**, **dictionary**: Collection of base types with the meaning they have in the JSON

Reviewer: dictionary -> hash table

Author: Not here, I think. Since here we define a dictionary as a hash table, with the special limitation that the key MUST be a string. So here it should be fine, no?

Reviewer: Ah I see, ok

* **Database**: An implementation that serves materials information.
* **Entry**: A type of resource, over which a query can be formulated using the API
  (e.g., structure or calculation).
* **Field**: A string key (similar to a key in a hash table, with the limitation that it MUST be a string).
* **Property**: A field-value pair.
* **Property Value Types**:
  * **string**, **integer**, **float**, **boolean**, **null value**: Base data
    types as defined in more detail in section [5.1. Lexical Tokens](#h.5.1).
  * **list**, **dictionary**: Collection of base types with the meaning they have in the JSON
    data-interchange format, i.e., an ordered list of elements
    (where each element can have a different type) or a hash table
    (with the limitation that the hash key MUST be a string), respectively.

> * **Resource object**: Represent resources. MUST contain at least the following top-level fields:

Reviewer 2: Represent**s** resources

Author: well spotted - fixed.

* **Database**: An implementation that serves materials information.
* **Entry**: A type of resource, over which a query can be formulated using the API
  (e.g., structure or calculation).

> * **Field**: A string key (similar to a key in a hash table, with the limitation that it MUST be a string).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Field**: A key of an associative-array-type data structure. A field MUST be a string.
```
hash tables are a specific implementation of associative arrays

Reviewer 4: @rartino and @sauliusg added more constraints to identifiers that can be queried: starting with a letter, alphanumeric and _, and just lowercase letters. Do we want to put something about that here?

Reviewer 5: @fawzi Do you mean, to add to the definition of `property` that it is always a string of lowercase + underscore? That may be a good idea.

Author: Done - however, this should be in the definition for **Field**, so I have added it here.

> * **Property**: A field-value pair.

Reviewer 6: I would like **Queryable Property** to be introduced here, as it replaces the previous definition of **Property** (anything one can filter on).

Reviewer 6: Otherwise this is fine.

Reviewer 3: @CasperWA  If one sees this as the definition of the term "queryable" when used in conjunction with "property", this would be fine with me as well.

Author: Done. Added **Queryable property** with the old **Property** defintion and also referencing the reader to section 3.5. Queryable Properties, which defines it more specifically. But is this not redundant, or?

Reviewer 6: Thanks @CasperWA. This is indeed redundant, but I think it is good to introduce key terms (even in not defining them fully) in this glossary.

>   A field MUST be a string, exclusively containing lowercase alphanumerics (`[a-z0-9]`) and underscores (`"_"`).

Reviewer 7: Sorry to re-raise an issue on the merged PR but lest I forget:

Should't we also say that "A field MUST be a string, exclusively containing lowercase alphanumerics (`[a-z0-9]`) and underscores (`"_"`), **and start with a lowercase letter or an underscore**" ? The latter addition would make them consistent with the filter grammar, without  limiting identifier choices to much (`_1234_` would be a valid identifier :)

Author: Done, see PR #132. And please review/approve :)

>   A field MUST be a string, which MAY exclusively contain lowercase alphanumerics (`[a-z0-9]`) and underscores (`"_"`).

Reviewer 4: Isn't MAY here too weak? I would put at least SHOULD, otherwise the keys might not be queriable...

Author: I first put MUST, but then there would be two right after each other, which sounds a bit weird.
I think maybe instead I'll put something like: "A field MUST be a string, exclusively containing lowercase ..."

Author: done

* **Property Value Types**:
  * **string**, **integer**, **float**, **boolean**, **null value**: Base data
    types as defined in more detail in section [5.1. Lexical Tokens](#h.5.1).

>   * **list**, **dictionary**: Collection of base types with the meaning they have in the JSON

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * **list**, **dictionary**: Collections of base types, with the same meaning they have in JSON.
```

Reviewer 2: According to JSON specification ([RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) and [ECMA-404](http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/files/ECMA-ST/ECMA-404.pdf)), what we call `list` is `array`, and `dictionary` is `object`. If we say refer to JSON, we should use the names from the JSON specification.

Reviewer 2: No terminating period in @ltalirz's suggestion.

Author: > According to JSON specification ([RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) and [ECMA-404](http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/files/ECMA-ST/ECMA-404.pdf)), what we call `list` is `array`, and `dictionary` is `object`. If we say refer to JSON, we should use the names from the JSON specification.

I agree with this sentiment, however, I always thought of these definitions here as our own way of sub-defining a dict and list - since (at least) object is a very specific thing in JSON. Sometimes we simply want a dict, e.g., under the `meta` field.
But in the end, if I have misunderstood and object is just the exact same as a dict, then its all fine - I may have mixed up _resource_ object and a regular ol' object sometimes in my mind.

This would then leave us with even more subsequent rewrites in the spec, since dictionary and list is mentioned a bunch of times. For simplicity we could just state that list and dictionary is equivalent to the array and object definitions in JSON?

Reviewer 2: > For simplicity we could just state that list and dictionary is equivalent to the array and object definitions in JSON?

Yes, this should do!

Author: Done

>   * **list**, **dictionary**: Collections of base types, defined in the samme manner as a JSON [array](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/array.html) and [object](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/object.html), respectively.

Reviewer 2: "samme" -> "same"

Author: done

> **Open Databases Integration for Materials Design** consortium can be found in [Appendix 1](#h.app1).
> This list is also machine-readable, optimizing the automatic discoverability.

## <a name="h.3.5">3.5. Queryable Properties</a>

> Queryable properties are resource properties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
_Only_ properties of a _resource_ can be queried.

It is understood that "querying a property" refers to querying the property _field_ of a _resource_ object using the `filter` URL parameter described in section [5. API Filtering Format Specification](#h.5)).
Not all fields of a resource need to be queryable - see section [6. Entry List](#h.6) for information on which properties MUST be queryable and which are RECOMMENDED to be queryable.
```

Author: Done
